well South Africa has filed an urgent
request for the international court of
justice to impose more provisional
measures on Israel in order to prevent
famine in Gaza it says there is already
widespread starvation in the strip and
additional orders are needed to protect
Palestinians in January you'll recall
the un's top court ordered Israel to
refrain from any acts that could fall
under the genocide convention along with
five other provisional measures South
Africa claims that Israel is already
breaching those orders well let dig into
this with aler senior political analyst
Maan bashara he's in London Maan help us
understand a little more about what's
happening at the international court of
justice right now it's already imposed
these provisional measures on Israel
what sort of additional provisional
measures could we see what does South
Africa
want well certainly just the idea of
invoking what Israel is doing and
reminding the justices at the icj that
Israel is not only not responding in
Israel is uh basically uh stepping on
and humiliating the court itself by
turning its back on all its
recommendations and uh taking a the
opposite root not only is it continuing
uh with the bombing Siege with the
attacks on hospitals and residential
buildings and of course uh the lines for
food but it's also starving
uh people starving children the
malnutrition the diseases and The Siege
now is killing people silently so
genocide is clearly uh taking place
unraveling in plain sight with intent
because we all understand now that the
an TRS are waiting on the borders
hundreds of them and Israel won't let
them in even won't respond to its own Al
the United States that's been begging
begging the net government to let the
food in because it doesn't want to look
this bad in front of its own public and
internationally Maran you've been saying
that Israel is acting with impunity is
anything that South Africa or the court
does is any of that likely to make any
kind of a
difference well judging from the actions
of the Israeli government it seems not
it seems like they are sort of rest
assured that the United States will
protect them as it has in the past now
it's been five months of more of the
same the Israelis the American tell us
give them assurances that they will uh
allow the humanitarian Aid that they
will reduce uh the casualties among the
Palestinians but they don't do that they
don't follow through if anything it's
all turning into an insult
on top of the injury that Israel is
humiliating its Ally it's embarrassing
its Partners In The West while it
continues to carry on with its genocide
the scenes of children dying the scenes
of children begging for food the scenes
of the destructions in Gaza and let's
all remember that this has been a war on
children a war on women a a war on
hospitals and civilians that Hamas has
been the collateral damage here so this
all continues unabated and the West
continues to assure us that they are
putting pressure well guess what the
pressure is not helping and the
theatrics of dropping food from the air
as we just heard from the United Nations
official is not only doesn't work it's
once again it adds insult to the injury
in the sense that everyone is allowing
Israel to act with imp Unity no one is
able to use their leverage or willing to
use their leverage with Israel and hence
the icj needs to take up what is going
on and make a judgment accordingly Maran
you talk about pressure from Israel's
Western allies Israeli War cabinet
minister Benny Gans has just been in
London and before that he was in
Washington DC what's your assessment of
his tour of Western
capitals I think it's more theatrics I
think the Biden Administration has been
unable and unwilling to put sufficient
pressure on the Netanyahu government for
example stopping the arms stopping the
support making its support un making it
support conditional if
anything and it's creating instead this
uh political storm about some divisions
in Israel and that they are appealing to
one side of the war cabin on the other
well let's remind our viewers around the
world that Benny Gans is and has been a
war criminal for more than a decade now
I mean he is the one who boasted of
bombing Gaza back to the Stone Age in
the 2014 War he is the architect of the
ongoing genocide in Gaza Netanyahu sits
in his office and takes political
decision The Architects of the war the
ones who are managing the genocide are
Benny Gant and Galant and and eot and
other gen on Israel so for the United
States to make them look like they are
the good guys like as if they were the
moderates is utter humbug it is just in
crisis it doesn't know what to do and
benan uh shuttles and goes between uh
Tel Aviv Washington and and London and
of course in London he hears the the
same thing he heard from Washington and
it all washes away because the war
continues and we know for a fact we know
for a fact because we heard it from
American officials that they support the
war even after whatever temporary
ceasefire is going to be carried out so
they continue to support Gans in his War
they continue to support the war on Rafa
andus in the South part of Gaza what
they're asking the Israelis to do is
simply try to reduce the casualties a
little bit because it has become so
embarrassing for Israel's allies in the
west because now they are implicated in
the ongoing genocide in
Gaza Maran Bashar aler senior political
analyst there for us in London today
thank you Maran